# Asanda-Kumbaca
Online Portfolio/Resume

The idea of an online portfolio I had for some time now, most of current work consist of Motion Graphics meaning I need to have 1 and used this as an oportunity to do so.

Biggest challenges with this task was finding a good structure that tells a story about me as you scroll down the site, since I am a visual person a had a concept in my mind and for me easier
when using Graphic Design so I had to fisrt design it to see and test if the structure before getting to code. My main idea was to first have a concept, the look and feel and the user flow.

So the fisrt page (hero) is a brief introduction about myself I used FlexBox and on the Nav bar I applyed FlexBox to have more control of spacing(Padding), justify and aligning , 2nd page is services I offer on this page my ideas was to have somesort of cards upside down kind of a look. on the side up is going Categories, eg Print, Digital, Social, Motion Graphics, then on the other side going into detail about the service. When you hover on top of each card colo changes and animates(not sure if it is a right word to use). The idea is to have less copy as much as possible on the front page as much as possible, I also added a Grid system to help with the layout Grid for the containers.

3rd page Is my portfolio visuals but I chose to have three visible then others, click the button to follow the link kind of an idea, trying to avoing long loading issues for better perfomance and engagement with portential clients and viewers. On this page I also used the Grid. 4th Page is Resume, this 1 was tricky a great learning curve to see how I can push things even I am learning, so my concepte for this page was to tell a story/work history in a presentation style kind of thing by using a graph, this is the page I was forced to use both FlexBox and Grid for the arrows. This a page I wanted to animate sublty just the growth line as scroll on the page it moves.

The last page, on this 1 it was more of a problem solving thing. Which is briefing, wrong briefing method you end up working over time for something that should have been avoided on the get go making sure both parties are happy with the brief before even starting to work on the job. On the otherside this can also be accessed by any who needs a breif or a structure to work on and also another way of driving traffic on the sight.

Working on this job thought me patiance, an eye for detail specially when working on the Tags and fixing Bug and always check the site after every update you make on each line both HTML & CSS so that I don't missed the erros or have do debugging for hours after. Also any change you make on either side HTML or CSS you have do the same on the other side as well. To be honest the 2 Sytems I used helped a lot the job was a bit easier than I thought. The best thing I did for myself even though it made my workflow slow but it worked. Up on each every adjustment, editing or new line my portfolio is open on Chrome on other screen so it made easier to see my direction and what I want to achieve as I was working. There were times when it feels like I am working backwods and felt throwing the computer on the wall specialy when you add a line and it changes the whole structure and I learnt the way and when things such that happens that when I started to take note when you miss something on the line or you have space you not supposed to have Sometimes even small letter and capital letters, just the small tiny thing. The letter issue I had on the portfolio section, I created a folder named it correcly but with a capital letter I infront then on my code i did nit notice i had small letter on image folder and the image naming, it took me time to find it out, kept tying to trouble shoot by opening both the folder and codes lol only had that thought hours later of which it helped me and understood what I did wrong.

Assement 4

For my portfolio I decided to use custom code instead of using BootStrap, reason for doing this is for creative freedom when it comes the look and feel including font choices, it might look bad for now but I will keep playing around with it even after the course till I get what I have in mind. On my fisrt design it was Desktop first which make it easier to work around and play with the layout. When I change the code to mobile first the changes the where to get the legeble point size in terms of body font, using Google developer tools, adjusting the Nav for all sizes mainly desktop and mobile, I had to remove 1 of my pages which was a big challenge for me at this stage, the Resume section. I had a lot of copy including a Graph, ideally i though I would animate not taking into considerration the diferent screen sizes that htis section has to adjust for. It took me hours but finally I gave up and decided to remove it for now till I get a propper startegy for it.

Assessment 5

On This assessment I wanted to test if I could add a future feture for the portfolio to add more traffic on the site (an idea). So I added a Template section, where I will create free social media and small digital campaign assets, Digital banners Socials. Idealy Canva free tier is a great plartform to start with. This is an add-on to the Brief even though I did not link the brief to the mailing agent or something, so that when you get the pop-up message you insert the email address you are sending to without saving from ther actual site to save memrory and speed. I did manage create the pop up message and a button to cancel, idealy when you cancel the pop-up message will ask if "Are you sure youwant to cancel" with 2 options Yes or No. 

The challenge with this assessment is that I also had to adjust/update my HTML first and add a Grig on the last section which was a bit of a challenge not getting the correct Alignment and updates working on mobile & not on Desktop I had to make adjustments on Kits-preview and adjusted margins and added a block, the for the thumbnail to appear I coppied the the <a href....</a> from the portfolio since they share the same containing file and updated the file name. 

I decided to use external javascript because of control, it's easier to see where things went wrong for an example when I added the last section I had so many challenges and had to make many tests and trials using Google tools, since my javascript was external it was a bit easier to troubleshoot because all my codes are sorted accordingly, I can easily see if the problem is with HTML, CSS or Javascript.
I wanted to practice and add the email form and other functions, but the deadline is in few hours. 
